the US announces sanctions and visa
restrictions on Israeli settlers
involved in attacks on Palestinians in
the occupied West
Bank Maran bashara Al jazer senior
political analyst with me on set and
Maran one of the stories we've had in
the bulletin and I want to pick up on it
is this decision by the United States
the state department to sanction
essentially settlers by refusing them
visas if they've been involved in
violence on the West Bank and we know
that there's an awful lot of that sort
of going on the big question though is
why what is the point because a lot of
these people aren't dual Nationals they
have US citizenship anyway it doesn't
prevent most of them from visiting the
United States it's a particularly kind
of Toothless measure what's the
point well Jonah I think we can all use
a bit of comedy in the middle of this
tragedy and this has been quite comical
I I mean I actually laughed for the
first time in a long time when I heard
of the American measure to sanction uh
those uh holigans uh in the West
Bank to say Toothless and to say Hollow
I mean it's really
understatement I can't remember in in
recent memory anything more stupid than
this measure anything Siler anything
more absurd than this measure and and uh
and the Secretary of State anony blinkin
you can say a lot of things about him
but he's not funny this was funny I mean
this was this was hilarious to be honest
and you said that a lot of them are duer
Nationals in fact the hup youth that
these are the holigans that keep you
know banging and hitting and destroying
things Apparently one out of two of them
have an American parent so they actually
you know not only do they dual National
they actually uh you know bred and and
and fed and and ideologically and
otherwise from their American Roots
right so America is actually in some way
responsible for them okay so there's
that bit right the the comical bit but
then the more serious stuff is the thing
that America is not doing I'll give you
one simple example hundreds of millions
of dollars are streamed from the United
States to the radical right and to the
settler movement that support these
kinds of activities these kinds of holam
in the West Bank they come from the
United States and they are tax
deductible meaning an American can
contribute money to these holigans and
they will take it out of their taxes
which means indirectly it's the American
government that is subsidizing these
holigans because when you deduct these
things from your taxes what you're
saying is that the American government
is sanctioning the contributions to
these holigans and to these illegal
settlers now historically speaking
America did recognize for a long time
that these are illegal that the
settlements are illegal in general not
just the
holigans among the settlers not just the
far right not just the Fanatics the
settlements are illegal now the United
States went from totally illegal to
unhelpful and so on so forth but under
Biden Obama and under Biden these are
illegal settlements so America can do
far more if it wants to
show a sign of moderation a sign of
Humane diplomacy a sign that it does for
the Palestinians it will not allow
Israeli impunity in occupied territory
it certainly can do more well again I I
want to ask you what is the point
because we talk about and we hear talk
of American talk about reigning Israel
in uh we hear calls for action there is
a void of action into this void of
action you put a meaningless bit of
action what is the point deception the
point is deception it is deflection it's
redirection meaning the United States
now stands accused of being complicit in
war crimes the American public opinion
in its majority according to the polls
want a ceasefire a permanent ceasefire
the majority of young Democrats want the
United States to stop helping Israel's
genocide in the Palestinian territories
most Americans and this is very
important please let's just take that in
most Americans support two-state
solution the real one not the ones that
is that the Biden Administration is
faking in order to cover up for Israel's
genocide how can you be for two-state
solution and
support financially and otherwise the
settlements that are cutting through the
Palestinian territories what you end up
with is not Swiss Federation you end up
with Swiss cheese and that's what
they're doing to the occupied
Palestinian territories with some
750,000 illegal settlers in over 200
settlements what you are doing you are
cutting the prospective Palestinian
State into something like 200 band
stands that's not the way to go if
you're really for a two-state solution
that's not the way to go if you are
responsive to your own public opinion in
the United States so to call for a Visa
ban that's just a cheap shot that's just
a
deception Maan thank you
down